\documentclass[11pt]{article}

% NOTE: The "Edit" sections are changed for each assignment

% Edit these commands for each assignment

\newcommand{\assignmentduedate}{September 12}
\newcommand{\assignmentassignedate}{September 5}
\newcommand{\assignmentnumber}{One}

\newcommand{\labyear}{2017}
\newcommand{\labday}{Tuesday}
\newcommand{\labtime}{2:30 pm}

\newcommand{\assigneddate}{Assigned: \labday, \assignmentassignedate, \labyear{} at \labtime{}}
\newcommand{\duedate}{Due: \labday, \assignmentduedate, \labyear{} at \labtime{}}

% Edit these commands to give the name to the main program

\newcommand{\mainprogram}{\lstinline{duplicates.py}}
\newcommand{\mainprogramsource}{\lstinline{duplicates/duplicates.py}}
\newcommand{\maintestsource}{\lstinline{duplicates/tests/test_duplicates.py}}

% Edit this commands to describe key deliverables

\newcommand{\reflection}{\lstinline{README.md}}

% Commands to describe key git tasks

\newcommand{\gitcommitfile}[1]{\command{git commit #1}}
\newcommand{\gitaddfile}[1]{\command{git add #1}}

\newcommand{\gitadd}{\command{git add}}
\newcommand{\gitcommit}{\command{git commit}}
\newcommand{\gitpush}{\command{git push}}
\newcommand{\gitpull}{\command{git pull}}

% Use this when displaying a new command

\newcommand{\command}[1]{``\lstinline{#1}''}
\newcommand{\program}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\url}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\channel}[1]{\lstinline{#1}}
\newcommand{\option}[1]{``{#1}''}
\newcommand{\step}[1]{``{#1}''}

\usepackage{pifont}
\newcommand{\checkmark}{\ding{51}}
\newcommand{\naughtmark}{\ding{55}}

\usepackage{listings}
\lstset{
  basicstyle=\small\ttfamily,
  columns=flexible,
  breaklines=true
}

\usepackage{fancyhdr}

\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{fancyhdr}

\pagestyle{fancy}

\fancyhf{}
\rhead{Computer Science 280}
\lhead{Laboratory Assignment \assignmentnumber{}}
\rfoot{Page \thepage}
\lfoot{\duedate}

\usepackage{titlesec}
\titlespacing\section{0pt}{6pt plus 4pt minus 2pt}{4pt plus 2pt minus 2pt}

\newcommand{\labtitle}[1]
{
  \begin{center}
    \begin{center}
      \bf
      CMPSC 280\\Introduction to Computer Science I\\
      Fall 2017\\
      \medskip
    \end{center}
    \bf
    #1
  \end{center}
}

\begin{document}

\thispagestyle{empty}

\labtitle{Laboratory 1 \\ \assigneddate{} \\ \duedate{}}

\section*{Objectives}

To learn how to use GitHub to access the files for a laboratory assignment. You will also continue to practice using
Slack to support communication with the teaching assistants and the course instructor. Next, you will learn how to
understand a Python program's source code, revise a Markdown document, run a test suite, and find and fix a defect in a
software application.

\section*{Suggestions for Success}

\begin{itemize}
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}

\item {\bf Use the laboratory computers}. The computers in this laboratory feature specialized software for completing
  this course's laboratory and practical assignments. If it is necessary for you to work on a different machine, be sure
  to regularly transfer your work to a laboratory machine so that you can check its correctness. If you cannot use a
  laboratory computer and you need help with the configuration of your own laptop, then please carefully explain its
  setup to a teaching assistant or the course instructor when you are asking questions.

\item {\bf Follow each step carefully}. Slowly read each sentence in the assignment sheet, making sure that you
  precisely follow each instruction. Take notes about each step that you attempt, recording your questions and ideas and
  the challenges that you faced. If you are stuck, then please tell a teaching assistant or instructor what assignment
  step you recently completed.

\item {\bf Regularly ask and answer questions}. Please log into Slack at the start of a laboratory or practical session
  and then join the appropriate channel. If you have a question about one of the steps in an assignment, then you can
  post it to the designated channel. Or, you can ask a student sitting next to you or talk with a teaching assistant or
  the course instructor.

\item {\bf Store your files in GitHub}. Starting with this laboratory assignment, you will be responsible for storing
  all of your files (e.g., Python source code and Markdown-based writing) in a Git repository using GitHub Classroom.
  Please verify that you have saved your source code in your Git repository by using \command{git status} to ensure that
  everything is updated. You can see if your assignment submission meets the established correctness requirements by
  using the provided checking tools on your local computer and in checking the commits in GitHub.

\item {\bf Keep all of your files}. Don't delete your programs, output files, and written reports after you submit them
  through GitHub; you will need them again when you study for the quizzes and examinations and work on the other
  laboratory, practical, and final project assignments.

\item {\bf Back up your files regularly}. All of your files are regularly backed-up to the servers in the Department of
  Computer Science and, if you commit your files regularly, stored on GitHub. However, you may want to use a flash
  drive, Google Drive, or your favorite backup method to keep an extra copy of your files on reserve. In the event of
  any type of system failure, you are responsible for ensuring that you have access to a recent backup copy of all your
  files.

\item {\bf Hone your technical writing skills}. Computer science assignments require to you write technical
  documentation and descriptions of your experiences when completing each task. Take extra care to ensure that your
  writing is interesting and both grammatically and technically correct, remembering that computer scientists must
  effectively communicate and collaborate with their team members and the tutors, teaching assistants, and course
  instructor.

\item {\bf Review the Honor Code on the syllabus}. While you may discuss your assignments with others, copying source
  code or writing is a violation of Allegheny College's Honor Code.

\end{itemize}

\section*{Reading Assignment}

If you have not done so already, please read all of the relevant ``GitHub Guides'', available at
\url{https://guides.github.com/}, that explain how to use many of the features that GitHub provides. In particular,
please make sure that you have read guides such as ``Mastering Markdown'' and ``Documenting Your Projects on GitHub'';
each of them will help you to understand how to use both GitHub and GitHub Classroom. To do well on this assignment, you
should also read Chapter 1 of the SETP textbook, paying particularly close attention to Sections 1.3 through 1.5. Please
see the instructor if you have questions these reading assignments.

\section*{Using Your Computer Science Account}

In advance of today's lab you have already received the details about your Alden Hall computer account and learned how
to log on and use programs. You should ensure that you have recorded how to complete these steps in your notebook;
please report any problems as soon as they occur. You may use this account on any computer in Alden labs 101, 103, or
109. Your files are stored on a central server; you don't have to use the same machine every time you log on in a
laboratory.

Hours of lab availability are posted on the bulletin board in each lab and on the following Web site:
\url{http://www.cs.allegheny.edu/}; the on-duty lab monitor is always available in Alden 101.

\section*{Configuring Git and GitHub}

During this laboratory assignment and the subsequent laboratory and practical assignments, we will securely communicate
with the GitHub servers that will host all of the project templates and your submitted deliverables. In this assignment,
you will perform all of the steps to configure your account on GitHub and you will start your first assignment using
GitHub Classroom. Throughout this assignment, you should refer to the following web sites for more information:
\url{https://guides.github.com/} and, in particular, \url{https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/}. You can
also learn more about GitHub Classroom by visiting \url{https://classroom.github.com/}. As you will be required to use
Git, an industry standard tool, in all of the remaining laboratory and practical assignments and during the class
sessions, you should keep a record of all of the steps that you complete and the challenges that you face. You may see
the course instructor or one of the teaching assistants if you are not able to complete a certain step or if you are not
sure how to proceed.

\begin{enumerate}

  \item If you do not already have a GitHub account, then please go to the GitHub web site and create one, making sure
    that you use your \command{allegheny.edu} email address so that you can join GitHub as a student at an accredited
    educational institution. You are also encouraged to sign up for GitHub's ``Student Developer Pack'' at
    \url{https://education.github.com/pack}, qualifying you to receive free software development tools. Additionally,
    please add a description of yourself and an appropriate professional photograph to your GitHub profile. Unless your
    username is taken, you should also pick your GitHub username to be the same as Allegheny's Google-based email
    account. Now, in the \channel{#labs} channel of our Slack team, please type on one line your full name,
    \command{allegheny.edu} email address, and your new GitHub username. If you have already typed this information into
    Slack during a prior class, you do not need to do so again.

  \item If you have never done so before, you must use the \command{ssh-keygen} program to create secure-shell keys that
    you can use to support your communication with GitHub. But, to start, this task requires you to type commands in a
    program that is known as a terminal. To run it, click on the icon, on the left side of your screen, that contains
    the \command{>} symbol. Alternatively, you can type the ``Super'' key, start typing the word ``terminal'', and then
    select that program. Another way to open a terminal involves typing the key combination \command{<Ctrl>-<Alt>-t}.
    Once the Ubuntu terminal starts, it will display as a box into which you can type commands.

  \item Now that you have started the terminal, you will now need to type the \command{ssh-keygen} command in it. Follow
    the prompts to create your keys and save them in the default directory. That is, you should press ``Enter'' after
    you are prompted to \command{Enter file in which to save the key ...  :} and then type your selected passphrase
    whenever you are prompted to do so. Please note that a ``passphrase'' is like a password that you will type when you
    need to prove your identify to GitHub. What files does \command{ssh-keygen} produce? Where does this program store
    these files by default? Do you have any questions about completing this step?

  \item Once you have created your ssh keys, you should raise your hand to invite either a teaching assistant or the
    course instructor to help you with the next steps. First, you must log into GitHub and look in the right corner for
    an account avatar with a down arrow. Click on this link and then select the ``Settings'' option. Now, scroll down
    until you find the ``SSH and GPG keys'' label on the left, click to create a ``New SSH key'', and then upload your
    ssh key to GitHub. You can copy your SSH key to the clipboard by going to the terminal and typing ``{\tt cat
    \textasciitilde{}/.ssh/id\_rsa.pub}'' command and then highlighting this output. When you are completing this step
    in your terminal window, please make sure that you only highlight the letters and numbers in your key---if you
    highlight any extra symbols or spaces then this step may not work correctly. Then, paste this into the GitHub text
    field in your web browser.

  \item Again, when you are completing these steps, please make sure that you take careful notes about the inputs,
    outputs, and behavior of each command. If there is something that you do not understand, then please ask the course
    instructor or the teaching assistant about it.

  \item Since this is your first laboratory assignment and you are still learning how to use the appropriate software,
    don't become frustrated if you make a mistake. Instead, use your mistakes as an opportunity for learning both about
    the necessary technology and the background and expertise of the other students in the class, the teaching
    assistants, and the course instructor. Remember, you can use Slack to talk with the instructor by typing
    \command{@gkapfham} in a channel.

\end{enumerate}

\section*{Accessing the Laboratory Assignment on GitHub}

To access the laboratory assignment, you should go into the \channel{\#announcements} channel in our Slack team and find
the announcement that provides a link for it. Copy this link and paste it into your web browser. Now, you should accept
the laboratory assignment and see that GitHub Classroom created a new GitHub repository for you to access the
assignment's starting materials and to store the completed version of your assignment. Specifically, to access your new
GitHub repository for this assignment, please click the green ``Accept'' button and then click the link that is prefaced
with the label ``Your assignment has been created here''. If you accepted the assignment and correctly followed these
steps, you should have created a GitHub repository with a name like
``Allegheny-Computer-Science-280-Fall-2017/computer-science-280-fall-2017-lab-1-gkapfham''. Unless you provide the
instructor with documentation of the extenuating circumstances that you are facing, not accepting the assignment means
that you automatically receive a failing grade for it.

Before you move to the next step of this assignment, please make sure that you read all of the content on the web site
for your new GitHub repository, paying close attention to the technical details about the commands that you will type
and the output that your program must produce. Now you are ready to download the starting materials to your laboratory
computer. Click the ``Clone or download'' button and, after ensuring that you have selected ``Clone with SSH'', please
copy this command to your clipboard. At this point, you can open a new terminal window and type the command
\command{mkdir cs280F2017}. To enter into this directory you should now type \command{cd cs280F2017}. Next, you can type
the command \command{ls} and see that there are no files or directories inside of this directory. By typing \command{git
clone} in your terminal and then pasting in the string that you copied from the GitHub site you will download all of the
code for this assignment. For instance, if the course instructor ran the \command{git clone} command in the terminal, it
would look like:

\begin{lstlisting}
  git clone https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-280-F2017/computer-science-280-fall-2017-lab-1-gkapfham.git
\end{lstlisting}

After this command finishes, you can use \command{cd} to change into the new directory. If you want to \step{go back}
one directory from your current location, then you can type the command \command{cd ..}. Please continue to use the
\command{cd} and \command{ls} commands to explore the files that you automatically downloaded from GitHub. What files
and directories do you see? What do you think is their purpose? Spend some time exploring, sharing your discoveries with
a neighbor and the course instructor.

What step did you find to be the most challenging? Why? You should write your reflections in a file, called
\reflection{}, that uses the Markdown writing language. You can learn more about Markdown by viewing the aforementioned
GitHub guide. To complete this aspect of the assignment, you should write one high-quality paragraph that reports on
your experiences. Now, verbally share your experiences with another class member! As you continue the assignment, you
should add all of the other required notes (e.g., a description of the program's defect) to the \reflection{}.

Now, please review the \reflection{} in the repository. By reading this file you will learn how to run the
\mainprogram{} program and observe that its output is not correct. The \reflection{} will also teach you how to run the
provided test suite for this program and see that it fails. Please make sure that you carefully record your experiences
when completing each of these steps and that you understand the purpose, input, and output of each command. Now, you
will need to learn more about the Python programming language so that you can identify and fix the defect in
\mainprogram{}. Once you resolve this defect, you need to carefully document your fix and make sure that the program
produces the correct output and that all of the test cases pass. Finally, you should add at least four new test cases
that establish a confidence in the correctness of your implementation.

\section*{Evaluating Your Submission}

The source code for the \mainprogram{} should now contain the correct implementation. Next, all of the source code in
your test suite and your \mainprogram{} should have thoughtful and clear comments. Also, the Markdown file that contains
your reflection must adhere to the standards described in the Markdown Syntax Guide
\url{https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/}. Finally, your \reflection{} file should adhere to the
Markdown standards established by the \step{Markdown linting} tool available at
\url{https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint/}

After the course instructor enables \step{continuous integration} with a system called Travis CI, when you use the
\gitpush{} command to transfer your source code to your GitHub repository, Travis CI will initialize a \step{build} of
your assignment, checking to see if it meets all of the requirements. If both your source code and writing meet all of
the established requirements, then you will see a green \checkmark{} in the listing of commits in GitHub after awhile.
If your submission does not meet the requirements, a red \naughtmark{} will appear instead. The instructor will reduce a
student's grade for this assignment if the red \naughtmark{} appears on the last commit in GitHub immediately before the
assignment's due date. Yet, if the green \checkmark{} appears on the last commit in your GitHub repository, then you
satisfied all of the main checks, thereby allowing the course instructor to evaluate other aspects of your source code
and writing, as further described in the \step{Evaluation} section of this assignment sheet. Unless you provide the
instructor with documentation of the extenuating circumstances that you are facing, no late work will be considered
towards your grade for this laboratory assignment.

\section*{Summary of the Required Deliverables}

\noindent Students do not need to submit printed source code or technical writing for any assignment in this course.
Instead, this assignment invites you to submit, using GitHub, the following deliverables.

\begin{enumerate}

\setlength{\itemsep}{0in}

\item Stored in \reflection{}, a two-paragraph reflection on the commands that you typed in your text editor and the
  terminal. This Markdown-based document's first paragraph should explain the input, output, and behavior of each
  command and the challenges that you confronted when using it. For every challenge that you encountered, please explain
  your solution for it. Finally, the second paragraph in this file should explain what defect you found in the program,
  illustrating why it was not correct and showing the steps that you took to fix it.

\item A properly documented, well-formatted, and correct version of \mainprogramsource{} that both meets all of the
  established requirements and produces the desired output.

\item A properly documented, well-formatted, and correct version of \maintestsource{} that both meets all of the
  established requirements and passes correctly.

\end{enumerate}

\section*{Evaluation of Your Laboratory Assignment}

Using a report that the instructor shares with you through the commit log in GitHub, you will privately received a grade
on this assignment and feedback on your submitted deliverables. Your grade for the assignment will be a function of the
whether or not it was submitted in a timely fashion and if your program received a green \checkmark{} indicating that it
met all of the requirements. Other factors will also influence your final grade on the assignment. In addition to
studying the efficiency and effectiveness of your Java source code, the instructor will also evaluate the accuracy of
both your technical writing and the comments in your source code. If your submission receives a red \naughtmark{}, the
instructor will reduce your grade for the assignment while still considering the regularity with which you committed to
your GitHub repository and the overall quality of your partially completed work. Please see the instructor if you have
questions about the evaluation of this laboratory assignment.

\section*{Adhering to the Honor Code}

In adherence to the Honor Code, students should complete this assignment on an individual basis. While it is appropriate
for students in this class to have high-level conversations about the assignment, it is necessary to distinguish
carefully between the student who discusses the principles underlying a problem with others and the student who produces
assignments that are identical to, or merely variations on, someone else's work. Deliverables (e.g., Java source code or
Markdown-based technical writing) that are nearly identical to the work of others will be taken as evidence of violating
the \mbox{Honor Code}. Please see the course instructor if you have questions about this policy.

\end{document}
